---
layout: post
title: IBM Datathon
date: 2015-05-15 21:01:00
description: 24 hours of coding
tags: computing
published: true
---

**Preparation**

We first had to submit an abstract for our project idea, but we weren’t entirely sure what direction to take. We brainstormed a few interesting ideas, but we knew it had to involve a problem that came with a large dataset so we could use the data meaningfully. One of my group members suggested creating a housing tool. It struck a chord with us because we had all experienced the struggles of finding a rental in London this summer.

As we dug deeper into the concept, we landed on a more unique idea. Instead of building a tool to help people find houses, we decided to create a tool that allows people to choose the right area to live in within London. Our goal was to let users search for areas based on niche, personalised criteria. The idea was to include options like reducing travel time to specific postcodes, the quality of nearby restaurants and cafes, accessibility of public transport for prams or wheelchairs, school and nursery ratings, and even the percentage of the population speaking a certain language. We wanted to cater to all kinds of needs and make it easier for people to feel at home in their chosen area.

**On the day**

Once we had our idea in place, we started looking for datasets to make it happen. We didn’t get much done before the big project day arrived, so a lot of the work was still ahead of us. On the day itself, we spent a considerable amount of time tracking down the right datasets to cover all the criteria we wanted to include. Because of time constraints, we had to narrow down our focus and implement only a few of the original ideas. Unfortunately, the event itself wasn’t the most organized, so we ended up finding a quiet spot in the computing building and dove into the work from there.

The best part of the day was the free pizza for lunch! It was around this time that we had finally gathered all our datasets and started coding. We took several breaks throughout the day to check in with one another and ensure we were implementing the different parts of the tool correctly. By the time most of the code was written and the presentation prepped, it was getting late, so we decided to call it a night and head home.

After dinner, we tackled the challenge of merging all our code. Despite only having three main sections, combining everything was much more difficult than we anticipated. Thankfully, two of my group members pulled through and stayed up until 4 AM to make sure everything was finished. With the deadline looming at 10 AM, none of us wanted to stay up the full 24 hours, but their hard work made sure our project crossed the finish line.

**Final submission**

Our final product was a user interface with which the user could toggle different criteria for locations, and it would return a list of postcodes as well as a map showing the different areas that person would feel comfortable living in. 

**Reflections**

It was a really enjoyable experience! As my first datathon, it differed significantly from other hackathons due to its heavy focus on data (as the name suggests). This challenge pushed me to brush up on my Python skills and collaborate effectively with a team to create something innovative and exciting.

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/IMG_8044.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/IMG_8055.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/IMG_8057.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/IMG_8069.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Some pictures we took!
</div>

