---
layout: post
title: First Year Ethics Project
date: 2024-02-10 00:32:13
description: Completing my first group project
published: true
---

At the end of the Christmas term, we were given group coursework as part of our ethics module. We had to do it with the people in our tutorial, and they had structured it so that all the girls were in groups together (since there are way fewer of us!).

I liked my group, but I found they were very quiet. This made collaborating a bit more difficult, especially when sharing ideas and making decisions.

**Stepping up as a leader**

The group had an assigned leader, but she couldn’t make it on the first day, so I volunteered to take on the role. This meant I had to delegate tasks and ensure that we stayed on track to meet our deadlines.

One of the first steps was picking a topic from a list given to us by the lecturers. We had to choose our top five preferences for a presentation and video project. There were four topics that really sparked my interest, and luckily, my group agreed. However, we weren’t all too sure about the fifth topic we ranked—*“Tip jar payments feature on Twitter exposes personal information”*—but we included it anyway. Unfortunately, that’s the one we were assigned!

**Our topic**

At first glance, the topic seemed straightforward. Exposing personal information is generally regarded as unethical, so we found it more difficult to structure our presentation. However, after some research, we managed to get quite a lot of information that we could use. We had two main points to explain:

1. *Problems and Causes*: This section focused on the issue of personal information being exposed when people use Twitter’s Tip Jar feature. We looked at the specific causes, including poor design decisions and the lack of adequate data protection measures.
2. *Ethical and Computing Concerns*: Here, we tackled the moral and legal responsibilities companies have when it comes to protecting user data. We also touched on broader concerns around social media profiling and the potential misuse of personal information.

As a group, we not only critiqued Twitter’s approach but also discussed how we would have implemented the feature differently.

**Reflecting on the group work**

As part of the assignment, we each had to write an individual essay summarising our research and conclusions. This gave me an opportunity to reflect on what I’d learned, both from the topic itself and from leading the group. I really enjoyed learning about ethics, but I wish we could have researched a more interesting topic; I also very quickly realised that I much prefer coding to making presentations. And, although it wasn’t always easy, stepping up and taking responsibility was a valuable experience.
