---
layout: post
title: Lessons for a first year Computing student
date: 2024-07-02 00:32:13
description: How to make the most of your first year at university
tags: computing, university
tabs: true
---
Starting university can be both exciting and overwhelming. Between coding assignments, making new friends, and just generally keeping yourself alive, university will be a challenge, but I hope my advice helps you navigate your first year.
1. Start your coursework early and allocate a little bit of time every day to it. It is a lot less stressful than cramming it all the night before, and you will not understand the work as well.
2. Turn up to lectures, and figure out how you best learn. I can’t just listen to lectures because I zone out, and using Notion on my laptop often means I get distracted, so handwritten notes are the best technique for me. Be aware that each lecturer works differently - if they don’t have a clear, concise set of notes you can understand, make your own (either inside the lecture or in your own time).
3. Start revising early, too! Emphasise doing practice questions and past papers. Despite the learning methods being different, university is a lot like school, and the same revision techniques will work.
4. Give yourself time to rest. Especially if you live in student accomodation, you will find someone going out every night.
5. Don’t feel like you have to join them unless you want to - forcing yourself will only lead to a bad night out.
6. Don’t feel bad if you find university hard. You have to study the same amount as high school (with less structure too), feed yourself, make friends, and join societies. As you progress, you’ll settle down into a routine and feel more comfortable. Reach out to your friends, family and university resources when you need help.
7. Computer science students are well known for having no hobbies that don’t involve a screen. Break the stereotype and touch some grass once in a while.
8. Stack overflow is your best friend.
9. Enjoy your year. You will look back at this time fondly and wish you hadn’t taken it for granted.
