---
layout: post
title: 3 best books I have read in 2024
date: 2025-01-14 00:32:13
description: Outliers, Design of Everyday Things, and Invisible Women
tags: books
tabs: true
---

**Outliers - Malcolm Gladwell**

Outliers is an incredible book about success; outlining the luck required to be successful in our society, while incorporating
the history of different cultures and countries to examine how people become successful fully. Gladwell dives into the
intricacies of success in a myriad of sectors, from sports to transport to education. It is a witty read, full of surprising
statistics and in essence, explains how success requires both arduous work and being in the right place at the right time. My
favourite bits of writing are when Gladwell compares values and beliefs from different cultures and how they impact success. 
For example, people from Asian countries are more likely to adopt the belief that success requires hard and strenuous work due 
to rice being their main crop - rice paddies require significant labour and specialised irrigation systems. Western countries 
usually grow crops such as wheat, which require large expanses of land yet less work, in fact, periods of rest are necessary for 
the crop to do well. This translates to the work ethic of these countries and is reflected in their education systems. However, 
studies have shown that children who take expansive breaks (eg over summer holidays) are less likely to do well in exams after 
these breaks, and this is why we can see Asian education systems consistently doing better than those in Western countries. He 
not only compares different cultures but also different socio-economic backgrounds; children from higher classes are more likely 
to study in their own time over the summer holidays and therefore do better in exams compared to children from lower classes. 
The book is filled with similar anecdotes that were well researched and explained in detail. I thought it was really interesting 
and extremely well-written - I would highly recommend it!

**Design of Everyday Things - Don Norman**

The ‘Design of Everyday Things’ is about how things we use daily are designed - whether good or bad - and outlines the thought 
processes designers should have before creating new products. I thought that the most interesting part of the book is when Don 
Norman rants about different designs which are terrible, and how we as the user are blamed for this lack of thoughtful design. 
A really funny example is when Norman starts explaining that when you push a ‘pull’ door (and vice versa), it actually isn’t you 
being stupid, but the design of the door is so bad that it is completely unintuitive. Norman tells us that when we design 
products, we need to take into account the limitations of the users, and adapt the design to fit their needs, instead of blaming 
them for their incompetence. I like that Norman structures this book to make it an easy read, while detailing the scientific 
discipline needed to reach high quality design.

**Invisible Women - Caroline Criado Perez**

Invisible Women is the most amazing book on feminism. It is a book full of everyday statistics which show how women are
disadvantaged in all walks of life. My favourite section is this passage about a small town in America. One winter, the council
decided that there wasn’t enough money in the budget to de-ice the pavements, and allocated this money elsewhere. The rates of
hospitalisation due to slips and falls increased, but disproportionately for women! This is because women are much more likely 
to be holding shopping, helping an elderly relative, or pushing a pram (as they carry out 60% more upaid care work than men), all 
of which makes it easier for them to fall. I like this example because it highlights so clearly why we need women in governments 
and councils, to represent women fully, as these institutions make decisions which affect women’s lives in so many ways. I also 
like the chapter where Perez discusses gender inequality in technology - as this is very relevant to me. This is a sector where 
lots of data exist, yet it contains the worst inequalities. This is because people in tech value ability and smarts. During 
interviews, they only look for the person with the best skills for the job, discarding their qualifications / previous 
experiences, and hypothetically, ignoring their gender and race. However, this thinking that a person is completely unbiased is 
false, as unconscious bias is prevalent in everyone, including job interviewers. This policy of hiring based only on ability is 
likely to increase gender inequality, as it allows this bias to slip by, and fosters incorrect stereotypes (eg that men are 
better at coding than women). Perez mentions a company which did an experiment showing that when a job ad contained a photo of a 
woman instead of a man, the number of female applicants rose (male applicants were unchanged). This exemplifies the simple 
changes companies can make to allow women to feel more supported and confident in the tech field. I highly recommend this book 
to everyone, as it clearly outlines why feminism is so important to our society. 

**Books I want to read in 2025**

I have begun reading ‘Politics on the Edge’ by Rory Stewart, a book which has made me realise how little I know about the UK 
government. I have listened to the podcast Stewart is part of - ‘The Rest is Politics’ - so I am excited to understand more 
about his life, and also how the structure of government really works.

I would also like to read ‘Why Nations Fail’, the 2024 Nobel Prize winner for Economics. It details the links between 
colonisation and failing institutions, which are a well-known marker for a failing nation. I have heard that the book also 
explores how countries can improve - providing solutions instead of just talking about the problems.
