---
layout: post
title: Lessons For A Second Year Computing Student
date: 2025-08-08 00:32:13
description: Reflecting on the past year
tags: computing, university
tabs: true
---
People told me that the jump from first year to second year was difficult, and naively, I didn’t believe them. Turns out building an operating system, going to all your lectures, joining a new society, dating, and still eating balanced meals is not for the weak. The first blog I wrote - ‘lessons for a first year computing student’ is still useful, but I think there is a different kind of challenge when the novelty of joining university wears off, and you see your friends more in the library than the pub.

1. When I started my second year, I was determined to go to all my lectures, and honestly, I think I managed it in the first term. The second term was a different story; life hit. It is easy to sit and write about how productive you should be, but it's not always possible. You should try to go to lectures, try to start coursework when it is set, and try to revise early, but the main point here is trying. Let yourself take breaks and understand that burnout is very possible if you don’t take care of yourself.
2. If you are anything like me, you need the right amount of pressure to work. I found in second year that I would have some quiet weeks and some hectic weeks when every single piece of coursework was due. If I were to redo second year, I would set myself targets and goals for the quiet weeks, so I have enough pressure to get work done and not leave everything for when I am stressed.
3. Moving out of halls into a rental flat is also a big jump. I love being able to walk out of my room to chat to my friends, and having a clean kitchen to cook in. It does mean that you learn how to do adult things, like cleaning mould from the shower ceiling using a scarf as a makeshift mask.
4. Join a new society. I didn’t take advantage of this in first year, but it's the best thing I did in second year. I tagged along with a friend to the debating society freshers' event, and now I have a whole new group of friends, I’ve learnt new skills, and I’m on the committee next year!
5. I probably went out more times in freshers week of first year than I did the whole of second year. While my flatmate was not too happy about this (he is a club rat), having so much to do forced me to spend my limited free time doing things I know I enjoy. So, whether it's going out to the club, organising a dinner potluck, or even just yapping in a cafe, make time for the things you love.
6. In my sporadic effort to stop consuming short-form media, I downloaded and deleted Instagram more times than I would like to admit. Once again, make time for the things you love - scrolling for 6 hours is not one of them.
7. My second year was full of group projects. I mainly worked with my flatmates, which I thoroughly enjoyed, but time management skills were put to the test. Try to find ways to work productively with the people in your team; I found that when I didn’t fully understand the task, my productivity dropped while trying to catch up, and by the time I had understood, we were already on the next task. Speak up when you don’t understand, and take the lead when you are confident.
8. Now for the ghastly word: internships. I was unhappy with my first-year results; I initially took each rejection personally and didn’t think I was good enough. I stopped applying soon after, but I had a wake-up call near the end of second term when suddenly everyone around me had a cool internship offer. Luckily, I started applying properly in time to get an offer with a consulting company, and I’m currently really enjoying my summer working with them. Don’t be disheartened by the rejections, and turn off your LinkedIn notifications (you deserve peace).
9. ChatGPT is your best friend (but also remember that each ChatGPT query releases 4.32 grams of carbon into the air, which is 20x more than a google search).

My second year taught me about balance. I had to deal with personal emergencies and life in general, but I am proud to say I achieved my goal of getting a first. It wasn’t easy, and I have to say thank you to my flatmates, friends, and family for helping me get there.
